## About
The Montessori Glossary Community Project is an open community dedicated to knowledge equity, shared authority, and the co-creation of an open access vocabulary of Montessori terms. We welcome participants from a variety of backgrounds, including practitioners, scholars, historians, social scientists, activists, coders, and more.

## Our Mission and Vision
Through collective efforts across an interwoven network, we pursue our mission of co-constructing and maintaining an open access controlled vocabulary of Montessori terms. The Montessori Glossary is an evolving, iterative co-construction project grounded in shared knowledge and authority. As a controlled vocabulary of terms used to describe Montessori information resources, the glossary aims to serve as a companion to broad subject term vocabularies. Our mission is to improve discovery and access to Montessori resources whilst supporting Montessori educator competencies. We envision an international, multilingual linked data vocabulary of Montessori terms that enhances access to Montessori resources within cultural institutions, community archives, and Montessori teacher preparation programs. Leveraging Web 2.0 technologies, we endeavor to facilitate a participatory process that lifts up the multiplicity of diverse perspectives, meanings, and contexts. In the spirit of democratization and shared knowledge production, we seek to sustain a living vocabulary that is inclusive, culturally-sustaining, and multilingual.

## What is a Controlled Vocabulary?
A controlled vocabulary is an organized arrangement of terms used to index and retrieve content. It typically includes preferred terms and describes a defined subject domain. The Montessori Glossary, itself a controlled vocabulary, is more than a simple list of terms. It is, by definition, a thesaurus in which users will find broader, narrower, and variant terms as well as scope notes. These terms are used by catalogers to describe information resources. A bibliography, such as the The Montessori Bibliography Online (MBO), by contrast, is a compilation of resources produced about a certain topic (e.g., Montessori education). A controlled vocabulary may be used for cataloging resources in a bibliography so as to enhance access for researchers.

## Invitation to Co-Construct
The purpose of the Montessori Glossary Community Project is to support a vocabulary for and by the community. Designed to engage the broader educational and Montessori communities, the glossary seeks to enhance the discoverability of Montessori resources whilst honoring community members as essential contributors to its development. As a valuable knowledge constructor, we invite you to join us in defining and expanding the glossary. The vocabulary itself is a work in progress and we welcome suggestions for new terms to be added or changes to be made within the vocabulary. As a grassroots project aiming to empower all knowledge bearers, our priority is to build a vocabulary that fosters a culture of knowledge sharing and care. If you are interested in contributing to, or learning more about the Montessori Glossary, we invite you to join us at the [Montessori Adolescent Practitioners Symposium (MAPS)](https://www.adolescentsymposium.org/) as we embark on Phase 3 of the project. You can always contact us directly at info@montessoriglossary.org.

Learn more at [wiki.montessoriglossary.org](https://www.wiki.montessoriglossary.org) (coming soon)
